Add initial 2024 January update (#2073)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/2024-january-update.rst

.. post:: Jan 11, 2023
   :tags: stats, year in review, newsletter
   :author: Eric Holscher

Write the Docs Community Update - January 2024
===============================================

Hey folks, Eric Holscher here, one of the co-founders of Write the Docs.

> I'm here with our traditional January community update to give the newsletter team the month off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm here with our traditional January community update while the newsletter team takes the month off.
```

2024 is looking to be a refinement of our approach to 2023,

> with a few new experiments thrown in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a few experiments thrown in.
```

I feel like we gotta mention them here if we say that

Our 2024 conferences
--------------------

> It was lovely to see everyone again in Portland & Australia conferences this year,

Reviewer 2: I feel like we could expand more about the experience of returning to in-person conferences, what things seem different and how we adapted to address the current social and professional climate.

> and to continue connecting virtually with our Atlantic conference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and to connect with folks online at our Atlantic conference.
```

> We're planning for 2024 to be similar to last year:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're planning similar events for 2024:
```

* `Portland <https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2024/>`_ will be in-person on **April 14-16**.

> * `Atlantic <https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/atlantic/2024/>`_ will be a virtual event, spanning the US and European timezones, on **September 22-24**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Atlantic <https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/atlantic/2024/>`_ will be a virtual event, spanning the East Coast and European timezones, on **September 22-24**.
```

Reviewer 2: Btw let's try to make sure we publish the Atlantic landing page before this blog post so that we don't out the dates prematurely :)

* Australia will likely be in-person again in December, but we're still working on the details.

We are currently accepting `talk proposals <https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2024/cfp/>`_ and selling tickets for our Portland conference.

> **Submit your talk proposals by January 15th**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Submit your talk proposals by January 15th**. Ticket sales will remain open until the week before the conference. 
```

We hope that you'll work with us to make all of our events unique again this year by submitting talks and showing up in-person or virtually.

> Community board and teams

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Community board, one year retrospective
```

Reviewer 2: This might be a bit too "dry" but my other thought was "celebrates first birthday/anniversary" and I was worried it might be too cute. Suggestions welcome!

Reviewer: > Community board, one year on

> Community board, one year later

> Community board, one year retrospective

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

-------------------------

> We've had our Community Board & CoreOps team in place for a year now,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've had our Community Board in place for a year now,
```

Reviewer 2: CoreOps has been around much longer :)

and we've been posting `quarterly updates <https://www.writethedocs.com/blog/archive/tag/community-board/>`_ for everyone to read.
We continue to refine our processes and approach,
and would love any feedback that folks have.

Overall, we're pretty happy with the structure that we have in place,

> and are looking forward to continuing to refine it in 2024.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and are looking forward to continuing to refine it in 2024. We'd like to thank all the community board members, who also serve as team leads for the community, for their dedication and enthusiasm in supporting our events and online spaces. 

If you're interested in joining one of the community teams, check out all the team descriptions and contacts on the `Team page <https://writethedocs-www--2073.org.readthedocs.build/team/>`_. 
```

Salary Survey
-------------

> We just finished up the 2023 Salary Survey, and we're excited that we had **over 1,000** responses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We just closed the 2023 Salary Survey, and we're excited to announce that we received **over 1,000** responses.
```

There were enough contractors this year for us to break out some high-level data,
along with our normal breakdown of full-time employees.

> We plan to release the results in Q2 of the year,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We plan to release the results in Q2, in time for the Portland conference, 
```

Reviewer 2: Pending confirmation from Kay that it's possible

> and will be sure to share that in the newsletter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and will be sure to share them in the newsletter and on social media.
```

> There was also talk about possibly doing a tooling survey this year,
> and that is something we are considering as an additional service to the community.
> We aren't 100% sure what that will look like,
> so if you have any good examples or ideas, please let us know!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There was a conversation in slack about doing a tooling survey this year,
which we are considering as an additional service to the community.
We aren't 100% sure what that will look like yet,
so if you have any good examples or ideas, please let us know!
```

Other community updates
-----------------------

We have shared our high-level community stats for past 6 years,

> and will continue to do it each year going forward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and this year is no different!
```

> You can view our 2023 stats on our blog at :doc:`/blog/write-the-docs-2023-stats`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can view our 2023 stats at :doc:`/blog/write-the-docs-2023-stats`.
```
